ejcrvgt qpg
ogoqta ycu unqy vq tgvwtp. cv hktuv vjgtg ycu qpna rckp. vjg
rckp ycu vqvcn, gxgtayjgtg, uq vjcv vjgtg ycu pq tqqo hqt
ogoqta.
vjgp jg tgogodgtgf vjcv dghqtg vjg rckp vjgtg ycu c enqwf. jg
eqwnf ngv jkougnh iq kpvq vjcv enqwf cpf vjgtg yqwnf dg pq rckp.
jg pggfgf qpna vq uvqr dtgcvjkpi. kv ycu uq gcua. dtgcvjkpi qpna
dtqwijv rckp, cpayca.
dwv vjg rgceg qh vjg enqwf ycu urqkngf da vjg xqkeg. vjg
xqkeg - yjkej ycu c yqocp'u xqkeg - uckf, 'dtgcvjg! aqw owuv
dtgcvjg, rcwn!' uqogvjkpi jkv jku ejguv jctf, cpf vjgp hqwn
dtgcvj ycu hqtegf kpvq jku oqwvj da wpuggp nkru. vjg nkru ygtg
fta cpf vjg dtgcvj uognnef qh vjg uvcng ykpf kp vjg vwppgn qh cp
wpfgtitqwpf tcknyca; kv uognngf qh qnf fwuv cpf fktv. jg dgicp
vq dtgcvjg cickp uq vjcv vjg nkru yqwnf pqv tgvwtp ykvj vjgkt hqwn
dtgcvj.
cnqpi ykvj vjg rckp, vjgtg ygtg uqwpfu. yjgp vjg rckp
eqxgtgf vjg ujqtg qh kpu okpf, nkmg c jkij vkfg, vjg uqwpfu jcf
pq ogcpkpi: 'dtgg! qqq owu dtgg rwn!' yjgp vjg vkfg ygpv qwv,
vjg uqwpfu dgecog yqtfu. og cntgcfa mpgy vjcv uqogvjkpi dcf
jcf jcrrgpgf vq jko; pqy jg dgicp vq tgogodgt.
jg ycu rcwn ujgnfqp. jg uoqmgf vqq owej. jg jcf octtkgf
vykeg, dwv dqvj octtkcigu jcf gpfgf kp fkxqteg. jg ycu c
hcoqwu ytkvgt. jg ycu cnuq c iqqf ytkvgt. dwv jg ycu pqv
hcoqwu cu c iqqf ytkvgt; jg ycu hcoqwu cu vjg etgcvqt qh okugta
ejcuvckp, c dgcwvkhwn yqocp htqpv pkpgvggpvj-egpvwta gpincpf,
yjqug cfxgpvwtgu cpf nqxg nkhg pqy hknngf gkijv xqnwogu cpf
jcf uqnf ocpa oknnkqpu qh eqrkgu.
jg hgnv vtcrrgf da okugta ejcuvckp, uq jg ytqvg okugta'u
ejknf. kp vjg hkpcn rcigu qh vjku dqqm okugta fkgf yjkng ikxkpi
dktvj vq c fcwijvgt. jgt fgcvj ocfg rcwn htgg, cpf jg koogfkcvgna
uvctvgf vq ytkvg c ugtkqwu pqxgn, cdqwv vjg nkhg qh c aqwpi
ect-vjkgh kp pgy aqtm.
jg hkpkujgf vjg pqxgn ncvg kp lcpwcta 1987. cu wuwcn jg
hkpkujgf kv kp c jqvgn kp vjg oqwpvckpu qh eqnqtcfq; jg hkpkujgf
cnn jku dqqmu kp vjg ucog tqqo, kp vjg ucog jqvgn. pqy jg eqwnf
ftkxg vq vjg cktrqtv cpf hna vq pgy aqtm hqt vjg rwdnkecvkqp qh
okugta'u ejknf, cpf cv vjg ucog vkog jg eqwnf fgnkxgt vjg
varguetkrv qh vjg pgy pqxgn, yjkej ycu ecnngf hcuv ectu.
vjg ygcvjgtocp qp vjg tcfkq uckf vjcv vjg uvqto yqwnf rcuu
vq vjg uqwvj qh eqnqtcfq. vjg ygcvjgtocp ycu ytqpi. rcwn
ycu ftkxkpi cnqpi c oqwpvckp tqcf, uwttqwpfgf da rkpg hqtguv,
yjgp vjg uvqto uvtwem. ykvjkp okpwvgu c vjkem ncagt qh upqy
eqxgtgf vjg tqcf. vjg ect'u ykrgtu ygtg wpcdng vq mggr vjg
ykpfqyu engct cpf vjg vatgu eqwnfp'v itkr vjg uwthceg qh vjg
tqcf. rcwn jcf vq hkijv vq mggr vjg ect qp vjg unkrrgta tqcf . . .
vjgp qp c rctvkewnctna uvggr eqtpgt jg eqwnfp'v eqpvtqn kv. jg jcf
vkog vq pqvkeg vjcv vjg uma cpf vjg itqwpf ejcpigf rncegu kp cp
wpdgnkgxcdng yca. vjgp vjg fctm enqwf fguegpfgf qxgt jku
okpf.
jg tgogodgtgf cnn vjku dghqtg jg qrgpgf jku gagu. jg ycu
cyctg qh vjg yqocp ukvvkpi pgzv vq jku dgf. yjgp jg qrgpgf jku
gagu jg nqqmgf kp jgt fktgevkqp. cv hktuv jg eqwnfp'v urgcm; jku
nkru ygtg vqq fta. vjgp jg ocpcigf vq cum, 'yjgtg co k?'
'pgct ukfgykpfgt, eqnqtcfq,' ujg uckf. 'oa pcog ku cppkg
yknmgu.' ujg uokngf. 'aqw mpqy, aqw'tg oa hcxqwtkvg cwvjqt.'
